After that had gone on for about two or three
months, I knew that something was basically wrong
and I wasn't happy. A man's not happy that he's
working, you better look at it. So I went in to see my
superior, Mr. Cottingham, the sailor manager,
and he took me in to Lamar Fleming, who was the Top
man with Addison Clayton. Will Clayton at that
time was appointed Secretary of State by the
President Roosevelt. But Lamar Fleming listened
to me and he said, Dick, you'll always have a job
with Addison Clayton. But circumstances being
what they are, I'd get out of the cotton butters
too. And I did. Did you, in 1937, did you and your
classmates anticipate World War II? As I said,
when I went there, went to Europe, and I saw what was
going on in Germany, Luther Jones, Bailey Conner
and I and all of us were very upset, very concerned
about it. Let's see, other campus traditions,
silver taps, was it held and if so where and what did
it mean? Held then just about the way it's held
today. Had a military walk there, back of the YMCA,
right in front of Old Main and it was a very
significant occasion. Nothing more beautiful in
the world. When you hear that silver taps at night
and you think about the individual, we usually
knew all our old classmates and those things that
happened. We didn't have many though,
fortunately. One or two were killed in accidents
and so forth. Did anybody ever act silly? Was the
behavior of everyone appropriate? Did they take
silver taps seriously? Oh, absolutely. No one
would have thought of doing anything that would
mar
the ceremony that they would be grabbed
physically and taken out and handled proper way.
Was muster held then? Must have was held then, but
it was not as significant as it is today. Do you
remember where? Well, frankly,
I don't. It was held, I think, on the drill field.
I'm not sure. I don't know. What about Bonfire? We
always had the bonfire but there again I didn't
take part in it actually because of my job. Where
was it held? Where'd they burn it? Right there on
the drill field. And what was in it?
just wherever we could find stuff that would burn,
you know, trees. Was there any kind of structure
that was quite often at the top of the bonfire? I
wasn't that close to it, really, to know just how it
was put together and whether it was done by, mainly
by students or by who was hired to do it or got it
done. I think it was the students mainly. I wanted
to pour it actually into that. Let's see. Now these
may not relate to your date. Hollywood, Uncle
Ed's, Running Wood and Water. Did those? All of
them were familiar. And I had friends I know who
participated, but I didn't. What was Hollywood?
I don't. I just don't remember the name of it. I
presume it was a little nightclub where people
could go and put a quarter in a nickel machine and
dance and drink a little beer on the side of
something. Was Uncle Ed's? Uncle Ed's Seminole.
As I recall in my recollection, what others said
about it. I don't know. All right. Explain Aggie
spirit. What is Aggie spirit? Well, the Aggie
spirit is indefinable, as Buckwaters would say,
pretty well. Except if you're an Aggie, you know
what it is. I think I mentioned to you a little
earlier that the Aggie spirit probably
identifies me with true grit. It identifies with
the A&M man, the Charles and the great things that
happened to him throughout his career at A&M. Each
man had his own separate memories. Mine revolve
around the individuals that I love there, like
Frank Anderson, like Finn Penworthy, like Buddy
Morgan, like T.O. Walden, like Hank Ashford,
He never, McQuillan, Mike McQuillan, there was no
greater A&M man than Mike McQuillan and what he did
for A&M has never been properly identified and a
book ought to be written about Mike. He was a
Scotchman, he was a class of 21, he was dedicated to
building a former student association and later
stepped down to take over and be the first
president of the Development Foundation because
he saw how great the Development Foundation might
be and what it would mean to A&M. So he took down to
take over that leadership and put it on the map. And
I never knew anyone who was more dedicated to A&M
than Mike. as our first, not our first, but our
second or third association secretary. Of
course, Ike Ashman, one of our first, if not the
first, of the official association. I know there
were student organizations
before that, and we had several presidents. Those
I didn't know, but starting with Ike Ashman on the
back, I knew practically all of them. and know that
fine contribution. So what did it mean to you, what
has it meant to your life that you attended A&M?
Well, A&M has
very special, very special benefits to any young
man. Number one, it offers two careers that offers
whatever you want to specialize in and you've got a
wide variety from agriculture to petroleum to
medicine to you name it to aspire to a degree which
you also back in old days special and you still have
it throughout Corps cadets an opportunity to get a
commission in the armed services. To me back in old
days not only helped me get through A&M because it
paid me a little money, but it also gave me
leadership training that I might not have gotten
anywhere else. I was fortunate enough to get into
the lead cavalry service where I learned to love
horses, learned to ride well, and learned to
admire
the service and what it stood for. And it served me
well as I went when World War I came around. Instead
of going in as an enlisted man and going through all
that tomfoolery, I immediately stepped in as an
officer and was called to active duty with the Air
Force. And I went from one very important
assignment to another, commandant cadets,
director and executive officer of a base.
Wangella Staff School, the Air Staff School,
Overseas, Executive Officer of the 38th Bomb
Group, and I moved from Lengarian Gulf to Okinawa
and had fantastic memories and opportunities and
dangers that I came through. But that's just one
thing. Of course, your friends you make there, I
think stay with you with life. This coming
October, here in Corpus Christi, a class of 37, of
which I was a member, will meet for its, what year
will that be?
It's... 61. 61 years. Anniversary
meeting. and we'll have quite a turnout. But we're
working right now. I've got a list upstairs. I've
got through Connie at the Association of Former
Students Office with labels to all present living
members of the class of 37. They'll all get a
special letter from our committee down here for
Aggies from the class of 37. In addition to that,
we'll call Each one of us, every one of them that we
know, and we're going to have quite a three-day
party and an interesting time. So fellowship and
the romance of the Aggie ring should never be to any
young student who's contemplating whether or not
to go to A&M or try to go to A&M. That ring has meant
more to me in my business life and my social life,
and my friendships, and most anything that, you
know, I don't believe in wearing jewelry.
I wouldn't advise any woman to wear a big diamond
ring or a Rolex watch or anything, but I just had one
of my best friends slap down in her garage, you may
have read about it in Houston, She was the 78th
woman who'd done that and the jewelry was stolen
from her and she was kicked in the face and brutally
treated. But this ring, just like one of the most
interesting instances, was during the war. I was
moving my 38th Bomb Group from Lingerie and Guff. I
had orders to move it to Okinawa and Okinawa, we
were to move and operate off of Yontan Strip, the
biggest, busiest airstrip in the world at the
time. So I went with my orders and took a sergeant
with me and went up as a forward echelon to find a
bivouac area, a new bivouac area, and prepare for
the move. And I got up there, I went into Bomber
Command and find a buddy major there who took me in
and he said, well, here's a map of the island,
Colonel Connolly, and let's see where the 38th
Bomb Group's going to be. He said, hey, I'm down the
strip, right at the end of the strip. Well, yeah,
yeah, you are. You're very convenient to the
field. It's the perfect spot for you. I said,
Major, who made that decision? He said, I'm not
about to put my troops at the end of that runway.
They know planes are jettisoned and don't Bombs
jettison sometimes, and sometimes they don't
make it off the end of that runaway. They just make
it off the end of the runaway. I said, I'm going to
put my troops there. He said, sir, this is a tight
situation. We've got lots of coming in here. He
said, I can't change that. I said, well, who makes
that decision? He said, well, you'll have to see
Colonel Delbert Ward, sir. I said, well, where's
Colonel Delbert Ward? He said, well, he's a bomber
commandant, Air Force commandant. Fifth Air
Force Commander, well, you take me to him. He said,
well, I'll be glad to get you over there. So he ran
with me. He kept me over there. Fortunately, I
caught Delvin Ward in at his tent there. Walked in,
introduced myself to him. First thing I saw was his
A&M ring. First thing he saw was my A&M ring. Well,
sit down, Dick. So we talked about A&M. We had
coffee together. We were friends immediately and
He said, what's your problem? What can I do for you?
And I told him. He looked at it. He said, my God, we
did make a mistake, didn't we? He said, come with
me. Put me in his Jeep. We rode around the island. He
found me a spot, a high spot on the island about 10
minutes from the strip where we had a great breeze
overlooking the China Sea. I had the best spot on
the island. I couldn't accomplish it without his
help. He wouldn't have done that for just anybody.
He was too busy. I've got a book by the other ward I
want you to read. I'll give it to you. All right. The
last question that I have scheduled is a very
serious one. What feelings do you hold in your
heart now for Texas A&M?
Well, I spend a good part of my time each
year working for A&M. And I say working for A&M,
directly or indirectly. Because of my long
association with A&M through the former student
association, through Corpus Christi A&M Club,
through many other areas that I've worked in, I
have called some mommas and dads and students.
They want to get this child in A&M. What can I do?
Well, I can only encourage them. I can only, what I
do in every case, I'll just give you one example
that occurred this year that I'm very proud of. It
was a young Hispanic who came to me, and he happened
to be the daughter of a nurse who had taken care of my
wife when she had cancer. Wonderful, wonderful
woman. And this was her only son. She did have two
daughters who'd gone on and done well in college.
And he had gotten to high school. He was a gang
member his first two years. And had done extremely
poorly, although he had, in math, he'd done
extremely well. He had a very good mind. And I
checked up on him. But he came to see me, and he wrote
a letter, told me that he'd met a gang member, but
he'd fought his way out of that because of the
pressure his mother and his sisters and friends
had put on him, and he'd seen the light. And he had,
thank God, he said, it wasn't with pistols, I did it
with my fist. And he said, I want to go to A&M. I'm
interested in math, and I know I can excel if I have
the opportunity, but I know because of my first two
years were poor, I'm going to have a hard time
getting in. But his junior and his senior year, he
did excel. We talked to his math teacher. His math
teacher said, this young man has unusual ability.
He can be a great mathematician. And we need to
somehow get him in there. I got ahold of Jim
Reynolds and Pam. And somehow, he made it. And he's
doing extremely well. He's in the Corps. But the
main thing is he's a role model now that we can use in
these high schools. Oh, yes. And it's great. Have I
left anything out that you particularly wanted to
share?
Well, there's several things that I might talk
about. In fact, I got a whole bunch of stuff I pulled
out of a fire here that we go through, but one thing
we mentioned was the cotton ball. They no longer
have a cotton ball. And cotton sort of became the
way it was. King cotton in Texas is no longer king
cotton, but more and more, they're planting more
and more cotton. But that occasion of the cotton
ball was a great event on the campus. And I hated to
see it disappear. And I wrote to her about it at the
time. And that's one thing I might mention. The
other thing, I noticed that you've done some work
in your career with the Danforth Foundation. I was
one of the fortunate ones who was a Danforth Summer
Fellowship winner with a man named Horn, Jeff
Horn, in my class. two of us were selected because
they couldn't make a decision between us. And so
they asked permission from Danforth for two to go
represent A&M. That's some of them. That was a
fantastic experience. I don't know that they're
still doing that or not. I don't think so. But
somehow, someone ought to get with the, you know,
that recently Danforth was sold and bought by
another company. Well, and the Danforth
Foundation gave all of its money to Washington
University St. Louis. Darn it. Because they were
doing great work with those summer programs. Oh,
I'll tell you. They took a group of outstanding
young men from the land grant colleges across the
nation. They took us into St. Louis, and we worked
for six weeks, if I recall correctly, or maybe it
was two weeks in St. Louis. But we worked two or
three days in the sales department, two or three
days in the research department, two or three days
in the accounting department, and so forth. we got
a background of what a business is. And then Mr.
Danforth himself was the founder of the American
Youth Foundation camp at Shelton, Michigan. Been
there. And we were there for at least a month. And he
brought in every week or twice a week some
outstanding individuals in the business
religious or government, political world, and
with us, who chowed with us, who swam with us, who
talked to us over the bonfire every night. And Mr.
Danforth himself led that. And it was one of the
great experiences of my life And no company could
do anything greater than to continue that. If
Danforth can no longer do it, we, you and I, should
find some company to do something similar. Oh, I
agree. Because it would build the leaders in that
group. I still have touch with some of them.
One of them, is in Hamburg, Louisiana. His name is
Lucian Laborde. He was recently given an honorary
degree by LSU. And we still stay in touch. He's one
of the great men of the South. And his brother's the
same way. But others I know have done equally well.
And we can give great credit to William A. Stanton
for them. That is one thing I might mention. I've
talked about Penny and what our intramural
program meant to us back in those days. I don't know
why this can't be expanded more than maybe it's
being done. I'm not familiar what's being done,
but if we had the kind of leader Penny did, he made it
interesting. He made it something we wanted to do.
There's so many activities we can get into and it's
also leadership training. But what I'd like to see
more done and more attention given is to what is
being done through the Memorial Student Center
with our many programs, student programs that Jim
Reynolds-Hedge is doing such a fantastic job with
Jane Bailey and his group. I don't know whether
around 750 different student programs if I recall
correctly last I heard involving many thousands
of students in different activities each one of
them may be a different thing maybe it's stamp
collecting maybe it's it could be anything or
whatever their interests are they can follow it
and have some student leadership and back up
through Jim's staff to help them raise money,
whatever they need, and organize and do something
useful and something worthwhile that they'll
always treasure. And this sort of leadership
training, to me, today must take place That's
within a mural of leadership and training. After
all, we're limited now in our corps. Our corps is
doing a fantastic job. And no one could say more
things about the corps than I do. I treasure it. But
Earl Rudder was right indefinitely. There was no
way our institution could continue to grow as long
as we had a limited 2,000 contracts. And there was
hell of that whether you were 40,000 students or
6,000 students. And it was unfair to the student
body to get them in and make them take two years of
hard training as a freshman and sophomore in Bull
Tech and then not offer them the a reward of being
able at least to hopefully get a contract with the
government. That limited the odds so much that it
was taken away from my enrollment and hurting A&M
badly and this was changed and it was changed in
such a way that it still kept our core in an elite
process and it is an elite organization. One that
we can all take tremendous pride in and want to
preserve and want to honor and want to continue to
keep on the top shelf of A&M.